---
title: Podcast Home Page
---

The podcast home page is your landing page for your listeners to view episode
announcements, messages, episodes, and links to where to find your podcast. If
you have only one podcast, your users will be automatically redirected from your
top level domain, such as `www.yourpodcast.com`, to the podcast page at
`www.yourpodcast.com/yourpodcasthandle`.

If you are hosting multiple podcasts, your top level page will display the
artwork for each podcast. Clicking on the podcast artwork will take you to your
podcast page at `www.yourpodcast.com/yourpodcasthandle`.

## Home Page

If you are logged in to your podcast, you will see a strip across the top of the
page with a link to the admin interface of your podcast, a bell that will show
if you have any new notifications, and the user who is logged in. You can click
on the user for quick access to your account, changing your password, or to log
out.

:::note If you have multiple podcasts, you can click the user dropdown to switch
to choose which podcast to interact with. If your account has access to two or
more podcasts, pay attention to which podcast is broadcasting messages! :::

Listeners can click the `Follow` button to follow any messages, including
episode announcements, from a Fediverse app, such as Mastodon. After clicking
`Follow` a pop-up box will be displayed where the user enterse their Fediverse
handle and then clicks `Proceed to follow`.

### Podcast RSS feed

On the right hand side is a link to your RSS Podcast feed. Users can copy that
and subscribe directly in their podcast app.

### Social Networks

Below the RSS feed is are icons that link to all of the social networks you
toggled on in the [Broadcast](../podcast/broadcast#podcasting-apps) section of
the podcast's admin section.

### Podcast Directories

Below the social networking links is **Listen On** which displays icons linked
to the podcast directories you toggled on in the
[Broadcast](../podcast/broadcast#social-networks) section of the podcast's admin
section.

## Activity

The **Activity** tab is located directly under your podcast artwork is the
default home page for your podcast. Website visitors are presented with a list
of messages in chronological order. If you are logged in as a podcast
administrator, you will see a text box where you can write a message to be
broadcasted to your followers. If you include the episode URL, a preview of that
episode will be included in your message.

Below each message there are four icons:

- **Comments**: This will show you the number of comments on a given message.
  Clicking this will show you all replies to your message. You can click the
  three dots to block a user or a domain in case of spam.
- **Shares**: This shows the number of times your message was shared by other
  users.
- **Favorites**: This shows how many people liked your message.

## Episodes

The **Episodes** tab shows a list of all episode announcements you have shared.
If you are using season numbers, it will default to the current season. Users
can click the **Season** link above all of the messages for a dropdown menu to
view past episodes by season.

## About

The About tab shares general information about your podcast, including:

- Podcast description
- Podcast category
- The [people](../podcast/dashboard#manage-persons) who contribute to the
  podcast
- Statistics
  - Number of seasons
  - Number of episodes
  - Date first episode was published
